Reactor API (#651)
FusionAuth/fusionauth-site: site/docs/v1/tech/apis/reactor.adoc

---
layout: doc
title: Reactor APIs
description: APIs for activating, deactivating, and retrieving the status of a license.
---

== Overview

[NOTE.since]
====
This API has been available since 1.26.0
====

This page contains the APIs for Reactor. Here are the APIs:

* <<Activate Reactor license>>
* <<Retrieve Reactor status>>
* <<Regenerate Reactor license>>
* <<Deactivate Reactor license>>

== Activate Reactor license

This API is used to activate a Reactor license.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Activate a Reactor license
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/reactor#
--

==== Request Body

[.api]
[field]#licenseId# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The license Id to to activate.

[field]#license# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#::

> The Base64 encoded license value.

Author: Thanks for this. I was not sure what it was used for initially, but now it makes sense.

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

:never_search_error:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]
:never_search_error!:

== Retrieve Reactor status

This API is used to retrieve the status of Reactor features. This also includes breached password metrics.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Retrieve Reactor status
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/reactor#
--

=== Response

:no_errors:
:never_search_error:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]
:no_errors!:
:never_search_error!:

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_reactor-response-body.adoc[]

== Regenerate Reactor license

> This API is used to regenerate the Reactor license.

Author: I'm actually not sure why we would want to regenerate a license?

> This API is used to regenerate the Reactor license.

Reviewer: The primary reason for this API is to allow FusionAuth to ask the License server to regenerate a license. In the event that you think your license key may have been compromised, you have the option to regenerate it. 

Regenerating the license will cause any other instance using this license key to fall back to community. Each valid instance that you want licensed, then will need to be re-configured with the updated license key. 

From looking at the code, I think the instance of FusionAuth that you run this from will be re-configured with the updated license. But all other instances will need to be reconfigured.

> This API is used to regenerate the Reactor license.

Author: Thank you. This is super helpful.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Regenerate a Reactor license
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/reactor#
--

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

:never_search_error:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-put-response-codes.adoc[]
:never_search_error!:

== Deactivate Reactor license

> This API is used to deactivate a Reactor license.

Reviewer: What are the implications of doing this to my runner server?

Reviewer: Correct, all licensed features will be un-available. If you were using breach password detection, this will no longer work, you will not be able to select licensed features, and existing configurations may no longer work if they are configured to use licensed features. 

In practice, there probably aren't many reasons to do this, the one use case may if you re-generated the license from another instance of FusionAuth and you are using the same license key here, you would have to de-commission and then activate again with a new key.

---
layout: doc
title: Reactor APIs
description: APIs for activating, deactivating, and retrieving the status of a license.
---

== Overview

[NOTE.since]
====
This API has been available since 1.26.0
====

This page contains the APIs for Reactor, FusionAuth's license system. Reactor is used to activate features based upon your licensing tier. Here are the APIs:

* <<Activate Reactor license>>
* <<Retrieve Reactor status>>
* <<Regenerate Reactor license>>
* <<Deactivate Reactor license>>

== Activate Reactor license

This API is used to activate a Reactor license.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Activate a Reactor license
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/reactor#
--

==== Request Body

[.api]
[field]#licenseId# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::

> The license Id to to activate.

Reviewer 2: typo. I always try to cut and paste docs into google docs and run the spelling/grammar check to catch stuff like this :)

Author: That is a nice pro tip! Thanks

[field]#license# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional#::

> The Base64 encoded license value. This value is necessary in an link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Air_gap_(networking)[air gapped] configuration where outbound network access it not available.

Reviewer 2: "access it not available." => "access is not available."

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

:never_search_error:

> include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]

Reviewer 2: This standard response code has the line: `The request was successful. The response will contain a JSON body.`

You might need to modify it to omit the last sentence. Suggest you add an ifdef and a parameter: `no_success_json_body` or similar.

Reviewer 2: Here's the delete verbiage: `The request was successful. The response will be empty.`

:never_search_error!:

== Retrieve Reactor status

This API is used to retrieve the status of Reactor features. This also includes breached password metrics.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Retrieve Reactor status
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/reactor#
--

=== Response

:no_errors:
:never_search_error:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-get-response-codes.adoc[]
:no_errors!:
:never_search_error!:

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_reactor-response-body.adoc[]

== Regenerate Reactor license

> This API is used to make requests from FusionAuth to the License server to regenerate a license. This is particularly useful if it suspected that the license key has been compromised and a new one should be regenerated.

Reviewer 2: " new one should be regenerated" => " new one is needed"

> Regenerating the license will cause any other instance using the license to fall back to community edition. The instance of FusionAuth that makes this API request will be reconfigured, but each additional instance that should be licensed will need to be reconfigured with the updated license key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Regenerating the license will cause any other instance using the license to revert to community edition features. All configuration will be maintained, but any paid edition functionality will be disabled. The instance of FusionAuth that makes this API request will be updated to use the new license key, but each additional instance requiring a license will need the updated license key.
```

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Regenerate a Reactor license
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/reactor#
--

=== Response

This API does not return a JSON response body.

:never_search_error:
include::docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-put-response-codes.adoc[]
:never_search_error!:

== Deactivate Reactor license

> This API is used to deactivate a Reactor license. If link:/docs/v1/tech/reactor/#breached-password-detection[Breached Password Detection] was being used it will no longer work, licensed features can no longer be selected, and existing configurations may no longer work if they are configured using licensed features.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 This API is used to deactivate a Reactor license. If link:/docs/v1/tech/reactor/#breached-password-detection[Breached Password Detection] was being used it will no longer work, licensed features can no longer be enabled, and existing configurations may no longer work if they use licensed features.
```

---
layout: doc
title: Reactor APIs

> description: APIs for activating, deactivating, and retrieving the status of a license.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: APIs for activating, deactivating, and retrieving the status of a FusionAuth Reactor license.
```
